- [Instructor] In this lesson, we'll use Terraform
to provision a managed Kubernetes cluster on Azure.
To provision the AKS cluster,
we'll need the Terraform and Azure Sealife
installed on our workstation.
Now I've already installed the Azure CLI,
so let's just go ahead and install Terraforms.
To do that, we can click on the getting started path
on the Terraform homepage and then select Microsoft Azure.
Here you'll find the instructions to install Terraform.
If we scroll down on this page,
you'll see the instructions for various operating systems.
Now I'm currently using Linux, so I'll click on that option,
and here you can see the commands
to install Terraform on Linux.
Now I've already taken these commands
and placed them into a script
that's within my Terraform directory
inside the environment repository.
You can see it there.
Let me go ahead and I'll run the installation script
and that will install Terraform on my machine.
Now there's instructions for both
Azure CLI and Terraform installations
within the working files for the course.
So just head out there and follow those.
It looks like Terraform is installed,
let's go ahead, just confirm that.
And now let's just take a look
at what we're going to do with Terraform.
So we can look at the aks k8 cluster.tf file,
and this is going to contain the declarative description
of the resources we would like to provision
on Azure with Terraform.
So a couple things to note here,
you'll notice that it installs the Terraform provider,
and then it's going to create a resource group
and the resource group is going to get a random pet name.
So it might be a little bit comical what we get here.
Now, the important part
is the provisioning of the Kubernetes cluster.
The cluster is going to have two nodes
and here you can see some information about it sizing
and the type of nodes.
Now, another thing that we have to do
is provide credentials for the Terraform Azure provider
to connect to the Azure cloud securely.
So we'll have to grab those credentials using the Azure CLI
and put them into some configuration.
All right, let's get to work on all this.
It starts first by logging into Azure.
So I'll go ahead and use the Azure CLI to log in.
That should be done.
Now we're going to create
an active directory service account
in order for the Azure provider
to connect to the Azure cloud platform.
So here we can just use Azure CLI for that,
and it's going to give us
two pieces of important information.
First is the appid, go ahead and copy that.
And then we need to paste that into
our Terraform.tfVARs file,
you'll remember how the variables work in Terraform.
So just paste the appid here and now let's return
back to the terminal and we'll grab the password.
Paste that right here and then hit save.
So we have our credentials,
the next thing that we're going to do is initiate
our Terraform workspace,
so use the Terraform init command,
and that's going to pull down
the Azure provider for Terraform.
And then from here, we just run a Terraform apply,
and this is going to cause Terraform
to take that desired state
and make it come to life on the Azure cloud,
through the Azure provider for Terraform.
So it builds out a plan and then we have to agree to it.
So just type yes, and then it's going to get to work.
You can see it's selected picked mosquito
for our cluster name, so that should be interesting.
Looking at the console output,
I can see that it already created the resource group.
So let's head over to Azure
and just take a look at that resource.
Yep, there it is.
It looks like Terraform has finished provisioning
the resources out in Azure.
Let's go take a peak one more time,
and let me go ahead and refresh here.
There, we can see our resource group,
we can see another resource group for some networking
and there's our new Kubernetes cluster, excellent.
Let's do one more thing.
We're going to return to the terminal
and we're going to use Azure CLI to connect kube CTL
to our newly created cluster.
To do that, it uses some of the Terraform output
about the provisioned resources.
All right, now, kube CTL should be connected,
let's just test that out, and it looks like it's good.
The reason we need to do that
is because some of our other tools like flux and flagger
may need that connection to Azure.
So for example,
when we provision out an operator on the cluster,
we need that connection.
It's kind of a chicken and an egg scenario sometimes
when standing up your GitHubs tools.
So that was a glimpse at how we can use
a GitHubs tool like Terraform
to handle the provisioning of a new Kubernetes cluster
using declarative configuration stored in git.
Now we're going to move on to provisioning outflux
on this cluster so we can continue our GitHubs approach.